Abstract: 
Introduction: 
	In the era of continuously advancing technology, data intelligence is crucial for business. Data intelligence is the technique which has revealed itself the extraordinary ability to extract the meaning from data with wide applications. 
The technique support business to interact and dissect a variety of data. The era of big data, a lot of hidden and useful information from rich data is important for human being. Exposing these rich data will make a big profit or advantages for corporation, healthcare, scientific research and education. Until now, there are many data mining algorithms have been developed for analysis several types of information. There are many techniques in the data mining field and in this report, we will concentrate on pattern mining field like frequent pattern mining, sequential pattern mining, and the primary is utility-driven pattern mining. 
	Moving to the past, pattern mining algorithms have been developed for finding frequency or support of objects or items but these are not enough. In reality, item or object also has its weight, profit, cost or risk and the reason has led to the improvement of study about pattern mining. A lot of algorithms have been created and these allow more valuable information to be exposed than previous pattern mining algorithms. 
	The Utility-driven mining framework has been developed, called high-utility itemset mining (HUIM) algorithms. This method focuses on two factors, one is the unit utility which is also called external utility and another is quantity, be also called internal utility. And setting the minimum utility threshold value, calculating the utility of itemsets from two factors easily. If the derived utility value is greater than the threshold in advance, we can conclude the itemsets is high-utility itemsets (HUIs)
	The well-known Two-Phase algorithm has been developed for finding HUIs, the method firstly find the upper bound on the utility of itemsets and then trim most of the unqualified itemsets without further calculating their supersets. And referring from Two-Phase, several advanced methods have been created like UP-growth, HUI-Miner and so on. Up to now, there are many algorithms of utility mining have been proposed. 
	But the problem has raised, the pattern mining task in a new database has become tough due to discovering a suitable and satisfying minimum utility threshold. To address, the top K mining has been applied, it will return how many pattern user wants. We just discover K patterns which have the highest utility. In the field of utility mining, because several number of results of HUIM and these are not interpretable, addition, more time-consuming and difficult for users to set a proper minimum utility threshold, the TKU, TKO, kHMC and THUI have been proposed to solve the interesting problem. Top-K utility mining algorithms can handle the issue of a huge results of traditional HUIM algorithms. 
	In a general utility mining framework, above methods don't work with the domain of negative utility values such as top-k high-utility itemsets mining algorithm (THUI) which method will find top k highest utility patterns with raising minimum threshold strategies and pruning space strategies but only the positive utility list is used to assess the utility contribution of patterns but the negative utility values is commonly seen in the real-life. That so, the problem of Top-K HUIs with positive and negative has been designed and the top k high-utility itemsets mining with negative utility algorithms (TopHUI) which is the advance of THUI algorithms has been proposed. 
	Overall, in this research, we will expose about the advance of THUI, TopHUI, an efficient and scalable exploration algorithms, it is flexible method for mining top-k HUIs with negative and positive utility. we present a TopHUI for mining top-k high-utility itemsets from transactional databases that contain both positive and negative utility values. And to reduce the amount of access the database, the positive and negative utility-list (PNU-List) is utilized in TopHUI. Using many minimum utility threshold raising strategies like RIU, RTU and RUC, these will quickly raise the minimum utility of the set of potential Top-k HUIs. Some pruning strategies are used to reduce the searching space, calculate the actual utilities of itemsets and their upper-bounds on utility in linear time. 
	Our plan is that we work with related problem. Firstly, we explain HUMI, TopHUI and solve them with negative utility, research and show an efficient TopHUI algorithm. Secondly, some key word like PNU-List, pruning strategies and raising minimum threshold utility value will be shown and complete the details of TopHUI. Thirdly, the experiment will be conducted on transactional databases with both negative and positive utility. Finally, we try to demonstrate the comparation of TopHUI and THUI, and try to compare TopHUI with another method in the same problem and summarized our research. 


2. Related work: 
	In this section, there are three part, transactional database for presentation about the used database, high-utility pattern mining using top-K and the details about high-utility pattern mining with negative utility (TopHUI). 
	2.1. Transactional Databases
		In this report, our experiment will be conducted on transactional database, that is a table which records all a transaction from customer in a store, a bank and so on. Each transaction will store a set of items bought by a customer. To depend on a list of transactions, we will figure out many itemsets of items and their utility in each transaction. Recording and gathering would serve to find top-K HUIs from transactional databases. We will define and explain more details in an advanced part. 
	2.2. High-utility pattern mining using top-K (HUIM and THUI)
		In the data mining field, pattern mining is the one of basic techniques. In the past, frequent pattern mining (FPM) was proposed by Agrawal in 1993 but the aiming of this mining technique is that discover the frequent itemsets, all itemsets of items appearing  in at least minimum support threshold. But the support-confidence based pattern mining framework show its limitation. In reality, one item or object also has other states like weight, cost, risk and more, the FPM only find itemsets appearing many times or in at least min support parameter. The return results will point out many important limitations, there are many results (itemsets) not interesting, it may be invaluable or low value. In the transactions, so much worth item but in the FPM, all items are considered as equally important. To find the interesting, utility-driven pattern mining was proposed. 
		Several utility mining algorithms was proposed like HUIM, HUI-Miner, FHM, HUP-growth and Two-Phase. A limitation is still here, how to user set a minimum utility threshold and each transactional databases, we must find a new minimum utility threshold. Developing effective and efficient algorithms for mining high-utility patterns have been studied and the top-k algorithms was proposed for mining. the HUIM algorithms with a min utility threshold is hard but HUIM with top-K without setting a min utility threshold are effective and efficient. In 2012, Wu et al firstly introduced the Top-K HUI mining framework with TKU algorithms. There are many Top-K HUI algorithms was proposed, more effective the TKO, REPT and KHMC algorithms. Top-K HUIs mining will it focuses on finding the Top-K itemsets with the highest utility values directly in transactional databases. To generate the potential Top-K HUI without setting a minimum utility threshold, using threshold raising strategies is needed for quickly raising the minimum utility threshold and downing a space searching, some pruning strategies are added to find the upper bound of itemset. Now, the best Top-K HUIs algorithm has been developed which is named THUI. THUI show more scalable and highly effective to return results than others. 
	2.3. High-utility pattern mining with negative utility (TopHUI)
		Even, several Top-K HUIM algorithms have been developed, but all methods only focus on  positive value domain and ignore all negative value domain. In our real-life, negative values is common to see in business transactions. To address and mining both positive and negative utility, the positive and negative list (PNU-list) and the concept of redefined transaction weighted utilization (RTWU) have been applied. the first algorithm handles with negative utility is HUINIV-Mine which was developed by Chu et al. But it generates a large number of patterns and quite time-consuming, these serious disadvantages make it hard to apply. Now, the advanced FHN algorithm with more effective dealing with negative value has been proposed, it reduces memory consumption and execution time compared to HUINIV-Mine. Applying that utilize the negative value domain and combine with THUI, which is a highly effective and efficient Top-k HUIs algorithm. The utility mining model call top k high-utility itemsets mining with negative utility (TopHUI). A Top-K HUIM algorithm will be the flexibility in which both positive and negative objects are considered to discover Top-k HUIs in transactional databases. 

3. Preliminary and Problem statement.
		